[3.1] Add example for adding RTE external plugin (#1204)
craftercms/docs: source/site-administrators/studio/rte2-setup.rst

      :width: 85%
      :align: center

   |

.. _adding-external-plugins:

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Adding External Plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> TinyMCE provides an option to specify URLS to plugins outside the tinymce plugins directory.  These external plugins allows the user to extend TinyMCE.  For example, you can create custom dialogs, buttons, menu items, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TinyMCE provides an option to specify URLS to plugins outside the tinymce plugins directory. These external plugins allow the user to extend TinyMCE. For example, you can create custom dialogs, buttons, menu items, etc.
```

- A link & reference to the relevant TinyMCE docs would be good, I think. (Don't if we have a policy for including these sort of links on our docs)
  - https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/configure/editor-appearance/#toolbarn
  - https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/configure/integration-and-setup/#external_plugins

- We should mention that adding a custom button to the toolbar in Crafter would be done using the plugin route since, [what TinyMCE docs advise](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/demo/custom-toolbar-button/) is not viable on our system without doing a whole form control plugin where they'd have full control of tinymce initialization. Plugins can do anything but in our world, it is also the way to add toolbar items (that aren't OOTB buttons, of course).

- The example below shows how to do just this, so perhaps you can tie the two together (i.e. these intro with the example below).

To add an external plugin, use the tag ``<external_plugins />`` in the RTE configuration.  Use the Crafter Studio API that gets a file for a given plugin, the getPluginFile API found here https://app.swaggerhub.com/apis/craftercms/studio/3.1.14.0#/plugin/getPluginFile to get the Tiny MCE external plugin file to pass to the RTE.

Example External Plugin
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Let's take a look at an example of a simple external plugin that creates a custom button which inserts text in the RTE.
We'll then load our external plugin then add the custom button to the RTE's toolbar.  For our example, we'll be using a site created using the empty blueprint named ``hello``.

1. Open the RTE (TinyMCE 5) configuration file in Studio by opening the **Sidebar**, then click on |siteConfig| -> *Configuration* -> *RTE (TinyMCE 5) Configuration*

> 2. First, we'll load the external plugin using the ``<external_plugins />`` tag and use the getPluginFile API to get the external plugin file for the RTE |br|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. First, we'll add the configuration for TinyMCE to load the plugin using Crafter Studio's getPluginFile API. We achieve this by using the ``<external_plugins />`` tag and adding child tags with the id of the plugin as tag name and the target URL as the tag's content |br|
```

   .. code-block:: xml

      <external_plugins>
        <my_button><![CDATA[/studio/api/2/plugin/file?siteId=hello&type=tinymce&name=my_button&filename=plugin.min.js]]></my_button>
      </external_plugins>

   |

> 3. Next, we'll add the custom button we're creating to the toolbar of the RTE.  Scroll down to ``<toolbarItems2 />`` tag and add the custom button we are creating ``my_button``

Reviewer: The toolbarItems are actually above `external_plugins` in the default config files. Since this is presented as the second step, I'd think the reader is at `external_plugins`; easier if we just omit up/down so it doesn't matter where they are.
```suggestion
3. Next, we'll add the custom button we're creating to the toolbar of the RTE.  Scroll to ``<toolbarItems2 />`` tag and add the custom button we are creating ``my_button``
```

      :width: 85%
      :align: center

   |

.. _adding-external-plugins:

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Adding External Plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TinyMCE provides an option to specify URLS to plugins outside the tinymce plugins directory.  These external plugins allow the user to extend TinyMCE.  For example, you can create custom dialogs, buttons, menu items, etc.

For more information on the Tiny MCE external_plugins option, see https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/configure/integration-and-setup/#external_plugins

> The Crafter Studio user does not have full control of the tinymce initialization.  To add a custom button to the toolbar in Crafter Studio, it would be done using the external plugin route since, what TinyMCE docs advise is not viable in Studio without doing a whole form control plugin where they'd have full control of tinymce initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Crafter Studio developer does not have full control of the tinymce initialization.  To add a custom button to the toolbar in Crafter Studio, it would be done using the external plugin route since, what TinyMCE docs advise – i.e. using the `setup` function to add the button – is not viable in Studio without creating an entire form control plugin where they'd have full control of tinymce initialization.
```

Please link "form control plugin" to the docs for creating form control plugins

2. We'll add the configuration for TinyMCE to load the plugin using Crafter Studio's getPluginFile API. We achieve this by using the ``<external_plugins />`` tag and adding child tags with the id of the plugin as tag name and the target URL as the tag's content |br|

   .. code-block:: xml

      <external_plugins>
        <my_button><![CDATA[/studio/api/2/plugin/file?siteId=hello&type=tinymce&name=my_button&filename=plugin.min.js]]></my_button>
      </external_plugins>

   |

3. Add the custom button we're creating to the toolbar of the RTE.  Scroll to the ``<toolbarItems2 />`` tag and add the custom button we are creating ``my_button``

   .. code-block:: xml

      <toolbarItems2>my_button</toolbarItems2>

   |

4. Finally, we'll create our plugin file and add it in to Studio.  See :ref:`studio-plugins` for more information on creating a Crafter Studio plugin.

   * Using information from step 2 for our external plugin, create the required directory structure for the plugin file, then create our plugin file named ``plugin.min.js``

     .. code-block:: js
        :linenos:

>         :caption: *$CRAFTER_HOME/data/repos/sites/SITE_NAME/sandbox/config/studio/plugins/tinymce/my_button/plugin.min.js*

Reviewer: The .min.js typically refers to a minified file. This would be achieved by running the source file through something like `uglify`. 

Developers would create plugin.js, then run uglify to produce plugin.min.js. This is not strictly necessary but an optimization. For the docs, I recommend writing it all up to this point with just `plugin.js` and at the end of the working plugin docs, recommend people to minimize and if done, change the external_plugins > my_button url to load the minified version.

      :width: 85%
      :align: center

   |

.. _adding-external-plugins:

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Adding External Plugins
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TinyMCE provides an option to specify URLS to plugins outside the tinymce plugins directory.  These external plugins allow the user to extend TinyMCE.  For example, you can create custom dialogs, buttons, menu items, etc.

For more information on the Tiny MCE external_plugins option, see https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/configure/integration-and-setup/#external_plugins

> The Crafter Studio developer does not have full control of the tinymce initialization.  To add a custom button to the toolbar in Crafter Studio, it would be done using the external plugin route since, what TinyMCE docs advise – i.e. using the ``setup`` function to add the button – is not viable in Studio without doing a whole :ref:`form control plugin <building-plugins-controls>` where they'd have full control of tinymce initialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Crafter Studio developer does not have full control of the tinymce initialization.  To add a custom button to the toolbar in Crafter Studio, it would be done using the external plugin route since, what TinyMCE docs advise – i.e. using the ``setup`` function to add the button – is not viable in Studio without creating a :ref:`form control plugin <building-plugins-controls>` where they'd have full control of tinymce initialization.
```

"doing a whole" sounds a bit informal

            function _onAction()
            {
              // Write something in the RTE when the plugin is triggered
              editor.insertContent("<p>Content added from my button.</p>")
            }

            // Define the Toolbar button
            editor.ui.registry.addButton('my_button', {
                text: "My Button",
                onAction: _onAction
            });
          });

          // Return details to be displayed in TinyMCE's "Help" plugin, if you use it
          // This is optional.
          return {
            getMetadata: function () {
              return {
                name: "My Button example",
                url: "http://exampleplugindocsurl.com"
              };
            }
          };
        })();

     |

     We recommend minimizing the ``plugin.js`` file. If your plugin is minimized, remember to change the external_plugins > my_button URL in the RTE configuration to load the minified version.

   * Remember to commit the new file so Studio will pick it up by doing a ``git add`` then a ``git commit``.  Whenever you edit directly in the filesystem, you need to commit your changes to ensure they are properly reflected.

> 5. Let's see see the TinyMCE external plugin we created in action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Let's see the TinyMCE external plugin we created in action.
```
the word "see" is duplicated
